{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red45\green44\blue46;\red61\green120\blue94;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24240\viewh14700\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 Background
\b0\fs34 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500
\cf2 Yield can vary greatly within a field due to a range of factors. Some things, like rainfall, pests, and weeds, vary from year to year - as do the strategies farmers use to manage them. Other factors, such as soil type, are stable within a field over time. One way farmers try to take advantage of the varying conditions within their fields is to apply different management strategies to different parts of the field - tailoring fertilizer application rates and seed populations to each sub-section of a field, for example. These sub-sections are called management zones, and can be identified in a number of ways - usually by looking at the characteristics of a field (soil type, topography, etc.) and the yield over time, taking growing conditions, including precipitation and temperature, into account.\'a0\
\
One of our goals at FarmLogs is to provide insightful, detailed, and actionable information to our customers without requiring lots of data entry on their part. One way we are trying to do this is to provide basic management zones to farmers as soon as they sign up. We believe soil type, slope and other topological elements of the landscape explain a lot of the yield variation within a field, though we would need to dig deeper before we make any recommendations to farmers.\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600
\cf2 \
\

\b\fs40 The Data
\b0\fs34 \
For a set of 197 Iowa fields growing corn in the 2013 growing season, we have collected the following data:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl600
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Soil series type and texture (SSURGO soil type)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl600
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Yield proxy (Leaf area index based on WDRVI)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl600
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Day of Year for maximum WDRVI value\
{\listtext	\'95	}Slope (rise/run, dimensionless)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Aspect (direction the slope is facing, degrees)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Curvature (is the surface convex or concave, dimensionless)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl600
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Weather: Weather data is available at a resolution of 1 degree latitude/longitude from the NASA Climatology Resource for Agroclimatology. You can get the data here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://power.larc.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/cgiwrap/solar/agro.cgi?email=agroclim@larc.nasa.gov"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 http://power.larc.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/cgiwrap/solar/agro.cgi?email=agroclim@larc.nasa.gov}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600
\cf2 \
The data file consists of a series of points, each with a field id, the WDRVI of the Landsat pixel containing the point on the day the field had its peak WDRVI value, the day of the maximum WDRVI value, and the soil type.\'a0\
\
WDRVI is a remotely sensed vegetation index that can be related to leaf area index (LAI), our proxy for yield in this study. The relation between LAI and WDRVI is:\
\
LAI = ln(1/1-((WDRVI+0.6684)/1.4392))/0.3418\
\
More details are available in paper "Comparison of different vegetation indices for the remote assessment of green leaf area index of crops"
\i  
\i0 (included in the google drive folder).\
\
Weather conditions, especially temperature, can greatly influence crop development and potential yield. Crop development is often measured by the accumulated thermal time over a season (growing degree days, GDD). See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Growing_degree-day"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 here}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://agron-www.agron.iastate.edu/Courses/agron212/Calculations/GDD.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 here}} for more information, including how to calculate GDD from temperature. \
\
The topology of the land where the crop is growing can also have a large effect on growth. Slope and curvature affect soil moisture, mostly due to its effect on how water flows across the surface. Aspect directly influences the amount of sunlight plants receive. South facing slopes are generally more productive than north facing slopes due to the greater amount of sunlight they receive.\
\
Soil is one of the most important factors influencing yield, with soil type and texture directly influencing on the soil\'92s ability to retain water and nutrients. Better solid will produce higher yields. More information on soil and agriculture is available here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://extension.psu.edu/business/start-farming/soils-and-soil-management/soil-quality-introduction-to-soils-fact-sheet"}}{\fldrslt http://extension.psu.edu/business/start-farming/soils-and-soil-management/soil-quality-introduction-to-soils-fact-sheet}}. The soil texture triangle is a useful way to visualize soil texture\
\

\b\fs40 What We Want From You
\b0\fs34 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500
\cf2 Your task is to develop a model we can use to divide a field into distinct management zones based on the characteristics of the field (soil type(s), topography, observed WDRVI/biomass, etc). Be ready to walk us through your analysis and to present an algorithm based on your findings, including examples (maps) of the management zones your model generates in a number of diverse fields from the study dataset. Your audience will include people from a range of backgrounds. \
\
We are interested in your problem solving process, so make sure you touch on:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl500
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}Exploratory analysis and assumptions\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl500
\ls6\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}The method you used to identify management zones\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl500
\ls7\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}The primary analysis and results (include examples of the zones your model generates)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl500
\ls8\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}How confident you are in the model\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl500
\ls9\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u9702 	}Model validation\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500
\cf2 At FarmLogs, we have a deep appreciation of the scientific process. Our first priority, though, is to deliver high quality products to our users. At the end of the day, everything we do needs to add value to our product.\'a0 This evaluation is no exception - we need to know if we can deliver simple management zones to farmers.\'a0\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600
\cf2 \
If you have any questions, please email John Shriver at john@farmlogs.com.\
}